---
num: "h05"
desc: "Recursive Algorithms Review"
ready: true
assigned: 2020-01-20 12:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2020-01-27 12:30:00.00-7:00
reading: "DS 9.1, PS 14.1 and 14.2"
---
<b>Reading: {{page.desc}}, {{page.reading}}</b>

<ol start="1">

<li>(10 pts) Fill in the information in the header. The following are required to get the 10 "participation" points.
    <ul>
    <li>Filling in your name and umail address.<br /></li>
    </ul>
    <p>Also: For paper submission PLEASE submit on ONE SHEET OF PAPER, double-sided if at all possible. If you must submit on two printed sheets write name on BOTH sheets and no staples, paperclips, or folded corners.<br />
    </p>
 </li>

 <li> List two important pieces of information stored in an <b>activation record</b> (as discussed on p. 442 in the DS textbook):
 	<ol>
 		<li style='margin-bottom:5em;'>(5 pts) 1.</li>
 		<li style='margin-bottom:5em;'>(5 pts) 2.</li>
 	</ol>
</li>

<li> There are two important parts to every simple recursive function: the base case, and the recursive call that makes progress towards the base case. (There are other forms of recursion, such as "mutual recursion", where <code>foo()</code> calls <code>bar()</code> and <code>bar()</code> calls <code>foo()</code>, but let's set those aside for the moment, and deal only with simple recursive functions). Something that can go wrong with recursion when it is used incorrectly is a <b>stack overflow</b>. Explain two different ways that a recursive function could be writen incorrectly that could lead to stack overflow. Hint: one has something to do with the base case, and the other has to do with the recursive call.
	<ol>
		<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(5 pts) 1.</li>
		<li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(5 pts) 2.</li>
	</ol>
</li>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

<li> Given a fairly common definition for a <code>struct Node</code> that can be used to make a singly linked list of int values:

<pre>
struct Node {
  int data;
  Node *next;
}
</pre>
	<ol>
		<li style='margin-bottom:35em;'>(10 pts) Write an <b>iterative</b> function <code>printList(Node* head)</code> that takes a pointer to the head Node of the singly linked list and prints each value of the linked list, one per line. Write the entire function (including the function signature), and be sure to write correct and compilable C++ code in your solution.</li>
		<li style='margin-bottom:25em;'>(10 pts) Rewrite the <code>printList(Node* head)</code> function from part a. <b>recursively</b>.</li>
	</ol>
</li>
