---
num: "h15"
desc: "Dynamic Classes Review"
ready: true
assigned: 2020-02-24 12:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2020-03-02 12:30:00.00-7:00
reading: "PS 11.4, DS 4.4"
---

<b>Reading: {{page.desc}}, {{page.reading}}</b>

<ol start="1">

<li>(10 pts) Fill in the information in the header. The following are required to get the 10 "participation" points.
    <ul>
    <li>Filling in your name and umail address.<br /></li>
    </ul>
    <p>Also: For paper submission PLEASE submit on ONE SHEET OF PAPER, double-sided if at all possible. If you must submit on two printed sheets write name on BOTH sheets and no staples, paperclips, or folded corners.<br />
    </p>
    <p><b>You will find that most of these questions have been discussed in class in some way already. Use this homework as an opportunity to solidify your understanding of these important concepts.</b>
    </p>
 </li>

 <li> Some classes have private data members with pointers to values allocated on the heap.  Your textbook calls the heap the "freestore", and it calls these values on the heap "dynamic variables".      

When you have a class with dynamic variables, i.e. when you have attributes that are pointers to things on the heap, you likely need to think about the "big-three", i.e. three special kinds of things that you need to implement in your class.

What are the names of this so-called 'big three?' You may list them in any order:

<ul>
<p></p>
<li>(2 pts) <div style="margin-top:4.5em;">&#160;</div></li>
<li>(2 pts) <div style="margin-top:4.5em;">&#160;</div></li>
<li>(2 pts) <div style="margin-top:4.5em;">&#160;</div></li>
</ul>
</li>

<li> (6 pts) What is the purpose of a destructor? <div style="margin-top:5em;">&#160;</div> </li>
<p><br />
</p>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

<li> (4 pts) Write the function prototype for the destructor for a class with the name <code>Foobar</code>. <div style="margin-top:7em;">&#160;</div> </li>
<p><br />
</p>
<li> (4 pts) Write the function prototype for a copy constructor for a class with the name <code>Foobar</code>. <div style="margin-top:7em;">&#160;</div> </li>
<p><br />
</p>
<li> (10 pts) The parameter to the copy constructor is a const reference.  Sometimes you use a const reference instead of pass-by-value for reasons of efficiency, but in the case of a copy constructor, there is an even more fundamental reason why pass-by-value CANNOT be used.  Why is that? <div style="margin-top:10em;">&#160;</div> </li>
<li> (4 pts) Write the function prototype for an overloaded assignment operator for the class <code>Foobar</code>. <div style="margin-top:7em;">&#160;</div> </li>
<p><br />
</p>
<li> (6 pts) Why does C++ provide users with both a <tt>delete</tt> operator and <tt>delete [ ]</tt> operator?<div style="margin-top:8em;">&#160;</div> </li>